# Multi-factor authentication

You can now enable Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) to your Joplin Account.
MFA enhances your account security by requiring more than just a password to log in.
Joplin Cloud uses a method that generates a new code every 30s, this code needs 
to be entered on each new log in after MFA is enabled.

If you can't generate your time-based code because you have lost access to your 
smartphone, for example, you will need to use one of the recovery codes to log in.

## Recovery Codes

When you enable MFA, Joplin Cloud will show you a list of codes,that you should save in 
somewhere safe. Each code can only be used once, but you can generate new codes,
if necessary, from your profile page.

### How to enable MFA

To enable MFA, you should have an app that will be able to store your MFA secret.
There are many alternatives, and any app that is also a password manager should do it.

Access your profile by clicking your full name in the top bar. Find the 
*Multi-factor authentication* section and there should be a link to *Enable Multi-Factor Authentication*.

On the next page, you will see a QRCode. You should now open your app preferred 
authentication app in your phone and read the QRCode. At this point, you will 
probably be prompted to store this as a Joplin Cloud credential. After the 
process is finished you will see that every 30s a new code is generated.

To finish enabling MFA, you should now enter two consecutive codes generated by
the app in the input field presented and click *Enable MFA*.

If successful you should see a notification and a new page with your recovery 
codes, **remember to save them**.

### How to disable MFA

Access your profile by clicking your full name in the top bar. Find the 
*Multi-factor authentication* section, and there should be link to *I want to disable it*.

### I forgot to copy my recovery codes, how do I find them?

If you have enabled MFA, but forgot to save your recovery codes, you can retrieve 
them again by going to your profile and clicking the *Recovery Codes* link in the
*Multi-factor authentication* section.

Before viewing your recovery codes, you will be prompted to enter an authentication code
(generated by your app) or your password. Every time you access your recovery code, 
Joplin Cloud will send you an alert email.

In this page, you will find a button at the bottom that will generate new codes,
don't forget to copy the new codes if you opt to generate new ones.

### How to log in with my recovery code

If you need to make login with your recovery code, when you are prompt to enter
your authentication code in the login screen you will see a link called
*Use a recovery code*. In this screen you have a new input field for the recovery
code.
